>> Will Sentance: Let's say we have this
application storing each user in my app
with their respective data.
Let's keep it really simple.
We already have lots of data and
lots of users.
Keep it really simple, user1 name Tim,
user2 name Stephanie, score 3, score 5.
>> Will Sentance: The functionality
I need to have for each user, again,
simplify just the ability to increment
to increase the scores user by one,
sorry, sorry, user score by one.
In fact,
there'd be a ton of functionality here.
Now, two things, I do not want to have
to run all over my fall of code or
my falls of code to try and
hunt out that increment function.
In my ideal world, wherever user1 is in my
application right now being passed around
into different bits of my application,
I have that increment functionality
right there adjacent to it.
And ideally, it's somehow pretty
much prescribed to only be
applicable to the user1 data or
to the user2, and to the user2 data and
not suddenly gonna be tried
to apply to my lead table.
I'm going to try to increment
my lead table, normally a thing.
Yeah, so how could I bundle up
in one package in one kind of
organizing data structure,
that data with the functionality so
I know that they're right
there next to each other.
And I can even use a special,
>> Will Sentance: Dot,
[LAUGH] dot perhaps in order to use
the functionality on that data.
How can I bundle functionality and
data in one place?
Braden, you got any idea?
>> Speaker 2: In object or bus.
>> Will Sentance: In an object,
store in object.
Let's keep it even simple for now.
Store in an object, that's exactly right.
So objects store functions
with their associated data.
This is, well, not fully strictly
implemented in JavaScript.
This is the notion of encapsulation.
It's saying protect and
bundle up in one place, functionality and
the data that it applies to, the data to
which it applies, [INAUDIBLE] grammar,
other data to which it applies
in one little bundle package.
And it's gonna transform how
we can reason about code.
Look at this, no hunting all
around my 100,000 lines of code,
my increment function,
I literally just put dot and there it is.
And it's gonna turn out everything
that we try and do today,
everything we try and do today,
getting into my optimal position.
Everything we try and do today is really
just gonna be about can I achieve this?
Can I achieve running functionality
on the pertinent data?
Not other data, not random quiz questions,
not randomly league tables, but
on the user ones data and
not have to go hunt for the functionality.
But it's right there.
I put dot and in the console,
I'd even see the increment kinda
pre-filled for me, predicted for me.
That's how easy it will be to find
the pertinent functionality for my data.
That's my goal.
Well, you know what, I did it here.
I did it here, done.
My paradigm's done.
I got data, functionality,
and an object done.
But let's keep creating objects
cuz it's gonna turn out
that we're gonna very quickly get
tired of handwriting these objects.
But let's do it a few times.
And in doing so,
also get familiar with a few different
ways to go about creating objects.
Can people think of another way?
Here I've created an object, literally
call it the full populate object, and
I've prefilled all its values.
What can I do instead?
If I would just create an empty object,
Braden,
how could I add properties
to it afterwards?
>> Speaker 2: Make a class.
>> Will Sentance: No,
just keep it really simple.
Yeah, Matt?
>> Speaker 2: Use a dot operator.
>> Will Sentance: Exactly,
dot notation, there it is.
Creating user2 with dot notation.
Declare empty properties
with dot notation.
Let's get going through.
I just wanna make sure that we're all
on the same page with our interaction
with objects.
Okay, Todd, line one here,
what are we saving in global memory?
>> Speaker 2: You are defining
the concept user2 as an empty object.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah,
big old empty object.
That's not really a thing,
just an empty object.
There it is, big old empty object,
assigning what property to it, Todd?
>> Speaker 2: The next line assigns name.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, and
assigning what value to that property?
>> Speaker 2: Ten.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah,
sorry, [INAUDIBLE], so
they call these different things,
key value.
I rarely hear that phrasing
in professional code.
We would tend to call it property name,
and then the property value so, okay.
Next one is score and 6.
And then, Matt,
what are we doing in the last slide here?
We're adding another property, yeah,
what do we tend to call functions
on objects, Matt, everyone?
>> Speaker 2: Method.
>> Will Sentance: Method, yeah, well done,
exactly, method, well done, folk.
[INAUDIBLE], there it is, and that's
taking all of its code and storing it.
And as usual,
we're not running that code but
we are taking that entire function
definition from the word function to
closing curly brace storing
on that object, beautiful